+++
date = '2023-11-27T02:47:13-08:00'
draft = false
title = 'Nvidia Reflex Analysis Project'
tags = ["python"]
summary = "A series of tools built for analyzing telemetry generated by Nvidia FrameView."
image = "/images/projects/Nvidia-Reflex-App/Nvidia-Reflex-App.png"
main = true
+++

## Project Details

Final project for CMPT 353 - Computational Data Science

- Developed critical data analysis programs in Python, utilizing SciPy, scikit-learn, Matplotlib, and Nvidia FrameView to analyze PC latency across various games.
- Investigated the impact of Nvidia Reflex on input latency under different GPU loads and graphical settings.
- Filtered and refined large datasets using machine learning techniques like LocalOutlierFactor to remove anomalies and smooth latency data.
- Conducted statistical tests (t-tests, chi-squared tests) to confirm the significance of Reflex's impact on latency reduction.

### Key Findings

1. **Latency Reduction**:

   - Reflex can significantly reduce latency, especially under high GPU load conditions. This was confirmed by t-tests with near-zero p-values.

2. **Impact of Graphics Settings**:

   - Reflex minimizes the increase in latency caused by higher graphical settings, with regression analysis showing a much lower slope for Reflex On compared to Reflex Off.

3. **Consistency Across Games**:
   - Reflex's effectiveness is consistent across different games under high GPU load but shows minimal impact under low GPU load.

### Challenges and Limitations

- **Hardware Variability**: The analysis did not account for differences in hardware configurations, which could influence Reflex's effectiveness.
- **Shader Caching**: Some data may have been affected by stuttering due to uncompiled shaders during benchmarking.
- **Scope Constraints**: Due to page limits, the report only includes a fraction of the detailed analysis conducted.

### Tools and Techniques

- **Data Collection**: Used Nvidia FrameView to capture telemetry data, focusing on PC latency and frame timing.
- **Data Visualization**: Created clear and informative graphs using Matplotlib, with Loess smoothing for better readability.
- **Machine Learning**: Applied anomaly detection to refine datasets and ensure accurate analysis.

## GitHub Repository

Check out the [source code on GitHub](https://github.com/Lingo56/Nvidia-Reflex-Analysis).
