content/projects/Nvidia-Reflex-App.md, before:

+++
date = '2023-11-27T02:47:13-08:00'
draft = false
title = 'Nvidia Reflex Analysis Project'
tags = ["python"]
summary = "A series of tools built for analyzing telemetry generated by Nvidia FrameView."
image = "/images/projects/Nvidia-Reflex-App/Nvidia-Reflex-App.png"
main = true
+++

{{< spacer >}}

{{< banner-images
src1="/images/projects/Nvidia-Reflex-App/Multigame_GPULow.png"
alt1="Low GPU Load"
src2="/images/projects/Nvidia-Reflex-App/Multigame_GPUHigh.png"
alt2="High GPU Load" >}}

## Project Details

Final project for CMPT 353 - Computational Data Science

This was a project designed to have us utilize the data science tools we learned in class and apply them to a real world dataset. At the time I was diving deep into figuring out how to get the lowest latency possible out of my monitor. So, naturally I thought it would be perfect to gather a ton of latency data and analyize it for our final project!

In the end my partner and I gathered data using Nvidia FrameView since getting data directly from our GPUs made the data much more consistent. From there we built tools to analyize Nvidia's generated .csv files with various python data science libraries.

## Overview

{{< spacer >}}

- Built Python tools to analyze latency data.
- Used machine learning to clean and smooth data.
- Ran statistical tests to measure Nvidia Reflex’s impact.

Key Findings:

- Reflex greatly reduces latency, but mainly under high GPU load.
- Reflex lessens the latency increase from higher graphics settings.
- Reflex is almost placebo under low GPU load.

Challenges:

- Results were difficult to keep consistent around a variety of hardware configs.
- Data being affected by unpredictable variables (shader compilation, gameplay variation).

Tools:

- Python data science libraries: SciPy, scikit-learn, Matplotlib
- Data collection: Nvidia FrameView
- Machine learning: LocalOutlierFactor (for anomaly detection and smoothing)
- Statistical analysis: t-test, chi-squared test

## GitHub Repository

Check out the [source code on GitHub](https://github.com/cbrad2001/cmpt353prj).

Commit message:

add improved description to cdm-app and reflex-app

content/projects/Nvidia-Reflex-App.md, after:

+++
date = '2023-11-27T02:47:13-08:00'
draft = false
title = 'Nvidia Reflex Analysis Project'
tags = ["python"]
summary = "A series of tools built for analyzing telemetry generated by Nvidia FrameView."
image = "/images/projects/Nvidia-Reflex-App/Nvidia-Reflex-App.png"
main = true
+++

{{< spacer >}}

{{< banner-images
src1="/images/projects/Nvidia-Reflex-App/Multigame_GPULow.png"
alt1="Low GPU Load"
src2="/images/projects/Nvidia-Reflex-App/Multigame_GPUHigh.png"
alt2="High GPU Load" >}}

## Project Details

Final project for CMPT 353 - Computational Data Science

This was a project designed to have us utilize the data science tools we learned in class and apply them to a real world dataset. At the time I was diving deep into figuring out how to get the lowest latency possible out of my monitor. So, naturally I thought it would be perfect to gather a ton of latency data and analyize it for our final project!

In the end my partner and I gathered data using Nvidia FrameView since getting data directly from our GPUs made the data much more consistent. From there we built tools in python to analyize Nvidia's generated .csv files with various data science libraries.

## Final Report

You can [download the report on our findings here (PDF)](/CMPT353-Report.pdf)

## GitHub Repository

Check out the [source code on GitHub](https://github.com/cbrad2001/cmpt353prj).
